.TH create_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline 1 "atlc-4.6.0 8th December 2003" "Dr. David Kirkby"
.ds n 5
.SH NAME
\fBcreate_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline\fR - bitmap generator for thin conductor between two
infinite groundplanes (part of \fBatlc\fR)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcreate_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline [-v] W H w bitmapfile\fR
.br
.SH WARNING
This man page is not a complete set of documentation - the complexity of the atlc project makes man pages not an ideal way to document it, although out of completeness, man pages are produced. 
The best documentation that was current at the time the version was produced should be found on your
hard drive, usually at 
.br
/usr/local/share/atlc/docs/html\-docs/index.html 
.br
although it might be elsewhere if
your system administrator chose to install the package elsewhere. Sometimes, errors are corrected
in the documentation and placed at http://atlc.sourceforge.net/ before a new release of atlc is
released.  Please, if you notice a problem with the documentation - even spelling errors and typos,
please let me know. 

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcreate_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline\fR is a pre-processor for \fBatlc\fR, the finite difference 
program that is used to calculate the 
properties of a two-conductor electrical transmission line of arbitrary 
cross section. The program \fBcreate_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline\fR is used as a fast way of
generating bitmaps (there is no need to use a graphics program), for a
1 pixel thick conductor of width w, centrally located inside a pair of
groundplanes of width W and separation H. This has an exact analytical
answer, when the inner is infinitely thin and the width W is infinitely
wide. This theoretical impedance is also calculated by the create_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline. It is therefore used
as a test of atlc. 
.P
-----------------------------------------------------  ^
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br                                                     
|                                                   |  |
.br
|              <----------w----------->             |  |
.br
|                                                   |  H
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
-----------------------------------------------------  v
.br
<-------------------------W------------------------->
.br

The parameters 'W' and 'H' and the inner dimensions of the outer conductor.
The outer dimensions of the inner conductor are 'w' and 'c'. The inner
conductor is assumed to rest on a dielectric (Er2) which is 'd' wide and
'h' tall. The dielectric is offset 'a' from the left hand side wall of the
outer conductor an the inner conductor is offset 'b' from the left hand
sidewall of the outer conductor. The whole region is surrounded by a
dielectric of relative permittivity 'Er1'. The dielectrics 'Er1' and
'Er2' can be different, or the same. If there is just an air dilectric,
then 'Er1' and 'Er2' will both be 1.0 
.PP 
.br
The bitmaps produced by \fBcreate_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline\fR are 24-bit bit colour bitmaps, as are required by \fBatlc\fR. Currently create_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline only produces bitmaps with
white (vacuum) dielectrics. 

.SH OPTIONS
\fB-v\fR
.br
Print the theoeretical impedance Zo. This only works if the width W is sufficiently
wide, otherwise atlc and the value printed here would disagree wildly. 
.br

.P
.SH SEE ALSO
atlc(1)
create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ(1)
create_bmp_for_circ_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_microstrip_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_in_circ(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_stripline_coupler(1)
design_coupler(1)
find_optimal_dimensions_for_microstrip_coupler(1)
readbin(1)
.P 
.br
http://atlc.sourceforge.net                - Home page 
.br
http://sourceforge.net/projects/atlc       - Download area
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-docs/index.html       - HTML docs
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/qex-december-1996/atlc.pdf - theory paper
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/examples                        - examples
.br
