.TH create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ 1 "atlc-4.4.2" "10th Sept 2003" "Dr. David Kirkby"
.ds n 5
.SH NAME
\fBcreate_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect\fR - bitmap generator for rectangular conductor inside rectangular conductor (part of \fBatlc\fR)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcreate_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect [options... ] W H w h Er outfile.bmp\fR
.br
.SH WARNING
This man page is not a complete set of documentation - the complexity of the atlc project makes man pages not an ideal way to document it, although out of completeness, man pages are produced. 
The best documentation that was current at the time the version was produced should be found on your
hard drive, usually at 
.br
/usr/local/share/atlc/docs/html\-docs/index.html 
.br
although it might be elsewhere if
your system administrator chose to install the package elsewhere. Sometimes, errors are corrected
in the documentation and placed at http://atlc.sourceforge.net/ before a new release of atlc is
released.  Please, if you notice a problem with the documentation - even spelling errors and typos,
please let me know. 

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcreate_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect\fR is a pre-processor for \fBatlc\fR, the finite difference program that is used to calculate the 
properties of a two-conductor electrical transmission line of arbitrary 
cross section. The program \fBcreate_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect\fR is used as a fast way of
generating bitmaps (there is no need to use a graphics program), for a rectangular conductor placed centrally inside another rectangular conductor, like this:
.P
-----------------------------------------------------  ^
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
|            Dielectric, permittivity=Er            |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
|             <----------w----------->              |  |
.br
|             ------------------------   ^          |  |
.br
|             |                      |   |          |  |
.br
|             |  Metallic conductor  |   |          |  H
.br
|             |  conductor (must be  |   h          |  |
.br
|             |  in  the centre)     |   |          |  |
.br
|             |                      |   |          |  |
.br
|             ------------------------   ^          |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
|                                                   |  |
.br
-----------------------------------------------------  |
.br
<---------------------------W----------------------->
.br

The parameters 'W' and 'H' and the inner dimensions of the outer conductor.
The outer dimensions of the inner conductor are 'w' and 'h'. The inner 
conductor is assumed be be placed centrally inside the outer conductor. The
spaced between the two conductors is filled with a dielectric of
relative permittivity Er
.PP 
.br
.P
.br
The bitmaps produced by \fBcreate_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect\fR are 24-bit bit colour bitmaps, 
as required by \fBatlc\fR. 

The permittivity of the bitmap, set by 'Er', determine the
colours in the bitmap. If Er is 1.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.33, 2.5, 3.3,
3.335, 4.8 or 10.2, then the colour corresponding to that permittivity
will be set according to the colours defined in COLOURS below. If Er
is not one of those permittivities, the region of permittivity Er
will be set to the colour 0xCAFF00. 
The program \fBatlc\fR does not know what these permittivites are, so they
\fBatlc\fR, must be told with the comand line option -d, as in example 4
below.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
\fB-b bitmapsize\fR
.br
is used to set the size of the bitmap, and so the accuracy to which atlc
is able to calculate the transmission line's properties. The default
value for 'bitmapsize' is normally 4, although this is set at compile
time. The value can be set anywhere from 1 to 15, but more than 8 is
probably not sensible. 
.PP
\fB-f outfile\fR
.br
Set the output filename. By default, the bitmap is sent to stdout, but
it *must* be sent to a file, with this option, or as described above. 
.P
\fB-v \fR
.br
Causes \fBcreate_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect\fR to print some data to stdout.

.SH COLOURS
The 24-bit bitmaps that \fBatlc\fR expects, have 8 bits assigned 
to represent the amount of red, 8 for blue and 8 for green. Hence there are 
256 levels of red, green and blue, making a total of 256*256*256=16777216 colours. 
Every one of the possible 16777216 colours can be defined precisely by the stating the exact amount 
of red, green and blue, as in:
.PP
.br
red         = 255,000,000 or 0xff0000
.br
green       = 000,255,000 or 0x00ff00
.br
blue        = 000,000,255 or 0x0000ff
.br
black       = 000,000,000 or 0x000000
.br
white       = 255,255,255 or 0xffffff
.br
Brown       = 255,000,255 or 0xff00ff 
.br
gray        = 142,142,142 or 0x8e8e8e
.PP
Some colours, such as pink, turquoise, sandy, brown, gray etc may mean slightly
different things to different people. This is not so with \fBatlc\fR, as the 
program expects the colours below to be EXACTLY defined as given. Whether 
you feel the colour is sandy or yellow is up to you, but if you use it in 
your bitmap, then it either needs to be a colour recognised by atlc, \fBor\fR
you must define it with a command line option (see OPTIONS and example 5
below).
.br
The following conductors are recognised by atlc:
.br
red    = 255,000,000 or 0xff0000 is the live conductor. 
.br
green  = 000,255,000 or 0x00ff00 is the grounded conductor. 
.br
blue   = 000,000,000 or 0x000000 is the negative conductor 
.PP
All bitmaps \fBmust\fR have the live (red) and grounded (green) conductor. The blue
conductor is not currently supported, but it will be used to indicate a 
negative conductor, which will be needed if/when the program gets extended 
to analyse directional couplers. 
.PP
The following dielectrics are recognised by \fRatlc\fB and so are
produced by \fRcreate_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect\fB. 
.PP
.br
white      255,255,255 or 0xFFFFFF as Er=1.0   (vacuum)
.br
pink       255,202,202 or 0xFFCACA as Er=1.0006 (air)
.br
light blue 130,052,255 or 0x8235Ef as Er=2.1   (PTFE)
.br
Mid gray   142,242,142 or 0x8E8E8E as Er=2.2   (duroid 5880)
.br
mauve      255.000,255 or 0xFF00FF as Er=2.33  (polyethylene)
.b r
yellow     255,255,000 or 0xFFFF00 as Er=2.5   (polystyrene)
.br
sandy      239,203,027 or 0xEFCC1A as Er=3.3   (PVC)
.br
brown      188,127,096 or 0xBC7F60 as Er=3.335 (epoxy resin)
.br
Turquoise  026,239,179 or 0x1AEFB3 as Er=4.8   (glass PCB)
.br
Dark gray  142,142,142 or ox696969 as Er=6.15  (duroid 6006)
.br
L. gray    240,240,240 or 0xDCDCDC as Er=10.2  (duroid 6010)
.br
D. orange  213,130,067 or 0xD5A04D as Er=100.0 (mainly for test purposes)
.br
If the permittivity is one not in the above list, then those parts of
the image with Er will be set to 0xCAFF00.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here are a few examples of the use of \fBcreate_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect\fR. Again, see the html documentation in atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-doc/index.html for more examples.     
.P
1) In the first example, there is just a vacuum dielectric, so Er=1.0.
The inner of 1x1 inches (or mm, miles etc) is placed centrally in an
outer with dimensions 3.3 x 3.9 inches. 

\fB% create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect 3.3 3.9 1 1 1 > 1.bmp
.br
% atlc 1.bmp\fR

2) In this second example, an inner of 15.0 mm x 5.0 mm is surrounded by an
outer with internal dimensions of 71.5 x 60.0 mm. There is a material
with permittivity 2.1 (Er of PTFE) around the inner conductor. The output
from \fBcreate_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect\fR is sent to a file 2.bmp, which is then processed by
\fBatlc\fR 

\fB% create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect 71.5 60.0 15.0 5.0 2.1 > 2.bmp\fR
.br
\fB% atlc 2.bmp\fR
.br

3) In example 3, the bitmap is made larger, to increase accuracy, but
otherwise this is identical to the second example. 
\fB% create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect -b7 71.5 60 15 5 2.1 > 3.bmp\fR
.br
\fB% atlc 3.bmp\fR
.br
.P
In the fourth example, instead of re-directing \fBcreate_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect's\fR output
to a file with the > sign, it is done using the -f option. 
.br
\fB% create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect -f 4.bmp 61.5 28.1 5 22 2.1\fR
.br
\fB% atlc 4.bmp\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
atlc(1)
create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ(1)
create_bmp_for_circ_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_microstrip_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_in_circ(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_stripline_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline(1)
design_coupler(1)
find_optimal_dimensions_for_microstrip_coupler(1)
readbin(1)
.P 
.br
http://atlc.sourceforge.net                - Home page 
.br
http://sourceforge.net/projects/atlc       - Download area
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-docs/index.html       - HTML docs
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/qex-december-1996/atlc.pdf - theory paper
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/examples                        - examples
