.TH create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ 1 "atlc-4.4.2 10th Sept 2003" "Dr. David Kirkby"
.ds n 5
.SH NAME
\fBcreate_bmp_for_circ_in_circ\fR - bitmap generator for circular conductor inside circular conductor (part of \fBatlc\fR)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcreate_bmp_for_circ_in_circ [options... ] D d O Er filename.bmp\fR
.br
.SH WARNING
This man page is not a complete set of documentation - the complexity of the atlc project makes man pages not an ideal way to document it, although out of completeness, man pages are produced. 
The best documentation that was current at the time the version was produced should be found on your
hard drive, usually at 
.br
/usr/local/share/atlc/docs/html\-docs/index.html 
.br
although it might be elsewhere if
your system administrator chose to install the package elsewhere. Sometimes, errors are corrected
in the documentation and placed at http://atlc.sourceforge.net/ before a new release of atlc is
released.  Please, if you notice a problem with the documentation - even spelling errors and typos,
please let me know. 

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcreate_bmp_for_circ_in_circ\fR is a pre-processor for \fBatlc\fR, the finite difference program that is used to calculate the 
properties of a two and three conductor electrical transmission line of arbitrary 
cross section. The program \fBcreate_bmp_for_circ_in_circ\fR is used as a fast way of
generating bitmaps (there is no need to use a graphics program), for a circular conductor inside a circular conductor (coaxial conductors), like this:

.P
                    *****************
.br
                ****                 ****
.br
             ****    <-----d------>     ****
.br
           ***            *****            ***
.br
         ***           ***********           ***
.br
       ***            *************            ***
.br
      ***            ***************            ***
.br
     ***      ^      ***************             ***
.br
    ***       |      ***************              ***
.br
   ***        |       *************                ***
.br
   **         O        ***********                  **
.br
  ***         |            ***                      ***
.br
  **          |                                      **
.br
  *<------------------------D------------------------>*
.br
  **                                                 **
.br
  **                                                 **
.br
  **                                                 **
.br
  ***                                               ***
.br
   **                                               **
.br
   ***                                             ***
.br
    **                                             **
.br
     **                                           **
.br
      **                                         **
.br
       ***                                     ***
.br
        ****                                 ****
.br
          ****                             ****
.br
            *****                       *****
.br
               ******               ******
.br
                   *******************
.br
                           ***
.br
.P
The parameter 'D' is the inner dimensions of the outer conductor and 'd'
is the outer diameter of the inner conductor. 
The inner conductor is offset 'h' from the centre of the
outer conductor. The whole region is surrounded by a
dielectric of relative permittivity 'Er'. 
.PP 
.br
The bitmap is printed to 'outfile.bmp' - the last command line argument.
.P
.br
The bitmaps produced by \fBcreate_bmp_for_circ_in_circ\fR are 24-bit bit colour bitmaps, as are required by \fBatlc\fR. 

The permittivities of the dielectric 'Er' determines the
colours in the bitmap. If Er is 1.0, 1.006, 2.1, 2.2, 2.33, 2.5, 3.3,
3.335, 3,7, 4.8, 10.2 or 100, then the colour corresponding to that permittivity
will be set according to the colours defined in COLOURS below. If Er
is not one of those permittivities, the region of permittivity Er
will be set to the colour 0xCAFF00. The
program \fBatlc\fR does not know what this permittivity is, so 
\fBatlc\fR, must be told with the command line option -d, as in example 4
below.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
\fB-b bitmapsize\fR
.br
is used to set the size of the bitmap, and so the accuracy to which atlc
is able to calculate the transmission line's properties. The default
value for 'bitmapsize' is normally 4, although this is set at compile
time. The value can be set anywhere from 1 to 15, but more than 8 is
probably not sensible. 
.PP
\fB-f outfile\fR
.br
Set the output filename. By default, the bitmap is sent to stdout, but
it *must* be sent to a file, with this option, or as described above. 
.P
\fB-v \fR
.br
Causes \fBcreate_bmp_for_circ_in_circ\fR to print some data to stderr. Note, nothing
extra goes to standard output, as that is expected to be redirected to a
bitmap file.

.SH COLOURS
The 24-bit bitmaps that \fBatlc\fR expects, have 8 bits assigned 
to represent the amount of red, 8 for blue and 8 for green. Hence there are 
256 levels of red, green and blue, making a total of 256*256*256=16777216 colours. 
Every one of the possible 16777216 colours can be defined precisely by the stating the exact amount 
of red, green and blue, as in:
.PP
.br
red         = 255,000,000 or 0xff0000
.br
green       = 000,255,000 or 0x00ff00
.br
blue        = 000,000,255 or 0x0000ff
.br
black       = 000,000,000 or 0x000000
.br
white       = 255,255,255 or 0xffffff
.br
Brown       = 255,000,255 or 0xff00ff 
.br
gray        = 142,142,142 or 0x8e8e8e
.PP
Some colours, such as pink, turquoise, sandy, brown, gray etc may mean slightly
different things to different people. This is not so with \fBatlc\fR, as the 
program expects the colours below to be EXACTLY defined as given. Whether 
you feel the colour is sandy or yellow is up to you, but if you use it in 
your bitmap, then it either needs to be a colour reconised by atlc, \fBor\fR
you must define it with a command line option (see OPTIONS and example 5
below).
.br
The following conductors are reconised by atlc:
.br
red    = 255,000,000 or 0xff0000 is the live conductor. 
.br
green  = 000,255,000 or 0x00ff00 is the grounded conductor. 
.br
blue   = 000,000,000 or 0x000000 is the negative conductor 
.PP
All bitmaps \fBmust\fR have the live (red) and grounded (green) conductor. The blue
conductor is not currently supported, but it will be used to indicate a 
negative conductor, which will be needed if/when the program gets extended 
to analyse directional couplers. 
.PP
The following dielectrics are reconised by \fRatlc\fB and so are
produced by \fRcreate_bmp_for_circ_in_circ\fB. 
.PP
.br
white     255,255,255 or 0xFFFFFF as Er=1.0   (vacuum)
.br
pink      255,202,202 or 0xFFCACA as Er=1.0006 (air)
.br
blue      000,000,255 or 0x0000FF as Er=2.1   (PTFE)
.br
Mid gray  142,242,142 or 0x8E8E8E as Er=2.2   (duroid 5880)
.br
mauve     255.000,255 or 0xFF00FF as Er=2.33  (polyethylene)
.br
yellow    255,255,000 or 0xFFFF00 as Er=2.5   (polystyrene)
.br
sandy     239,203,027 or 0xEFCC1A as Er=3.3   (PVC)
.br
brown     188,127,096 or 0xBC7F60 as Er=3.335 (epoxy resin)
.br
Turquoise 026,239,179 or 0x1AEFB3 as Er=4.8   (glass PCB)
.br
Dark gray 142,142,142 or ox696969 as Er=6.15  (duroid 6006)
.br
L. gray   240,240,240 or 0xDCDCDC as Er=10.2  (duroid 6010)
.br
.SH NOTE 
Although \fBcreate_bmp_for_circ_in_circ\fR is used for circular inner and outer
conductors, the outside of the outer conductor is drawn as a square. This is 
for convenience and makes no difference to the calculations. The inside
is of the outer conductor is drawn as a circle. 
.SH EXAMPLES
Here are a few examples of the use of \fBcreate_bmp_for_circ_in_circ\fR. Again, see the html documentation in atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-docs/index.html for more examples.     
.P
1) In the first example, the outer conductor has an inside diameter of 12
units (inches, mm, feet etc.), the inner has an outside diameter of 3.9 units.
The inner is placed centrally (h=0) and the dielectric is vacuum (Er=1.0).
.br
\fB% create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ 12 3.9 0 1.0 coaxial_1.bmp
.br
% atlc coaxial_1.bmp\fR
.br
\fBatlc\fR will indicate the correct value of impedance to be 67.3667 Ohms,
whereas an exact analysis will show the true value to be 67.4358 Ohms,
so \fBatlc\fR has an error of 0.102%. 
.P 
2) In this second example, the conductor sizes are the sames as in example 1, but the inner is located 3.5 units
off-centre and the dielectric has a relative permittivity of 2.1 
(Er of PTFE) The output is sent to a file not_in_centre.bmp
which is then processed by \fBatlc\fR 
.br
\fB% create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ 12 3.9 3.5 2.1 not_in_centre.bmp\fR
.br
\fB% atlc not_in_centre.bmp\fR
.br
The impedance of this is theoretically 24.315342 Ohms, as create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ
will calculate for you. atlc's estimate is 24.2493 Ohms, an error of
only -0.271 %. 
.P
3) In the third example the bitmap is made larger, to increase accuracy, but
otherwise this is identical to the previous one. 
.br
\fB% create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ -b8 12 3.9 3.5 2.1 bigger_not_in_centre.bmp \fR
.br
\fB% atlc bigger_not_in_centre.bmp\fR
.br
This time atlc will take much longer to calculate Zo, since the bitmap is larger and so it needs to do more calculations. However,
the final result should be more accurate. In this case, the result reported is 24.2461 Ohms, an error that's marginally smaller than before at 0.285 %.
It is possible there may be something to be gained by decreasing the
cutoff at larger grids, so this is being investigated. However, errors
almost always below 0.25 %, no matter what is being analysed. 
.P
In the fourth example, a material with a relativity permittivity 7.89 of is 
used. There is no change in how to use \fBcreate_bmp_for_circ_in_circ\fR, but since
this permittivity is not one of the pre-defined values (see COLOURS), we must tell \fBatlc\fR what it is.
The colour will be set an olive green one, with a hexacidcal representation of red=0xCA, blue=OxFF and
green = 0x00. This just happens to be the default colour  used when the permittivity is unknown. So atlc
must be given this information, like thisL
.br
\fB% create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ 23 9 0 7.89 an_odd_er.bmp
.br
% atlc -d CAFF00=7.89 an_odd_er.bmp
\fR
This has a theoretical impedance of 20.041970 Ohms, but atlc version
3.0.1 will calculate it to be 20.0300, an error of -0.058 % !!! If you look at the file 
an_odd_er.bmp with a graphics package, you will see there are 3 colours in it 
- the red inner conductor, the green outer and an olive-green dielectric. 
\fR
.SH SEE ALSO

atlc(1)
.br
create_bmp_for_circ_in_rect(1)
.br
create_bmp_for_microstrip_coupler(1)
.br
create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect(1)
.br
create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect_coupler(1)
.br
create_bmp_for_rect_in_circ(1)
.br
create_bmp_for_rect_in_rect(1)
.br
create_bmp_for_stripline_coupler(1)
.br
create_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline(1)
.br
design_coupler(1)
find_optimal_dimensions_for_microstrip_coupler(1)
readbin(1)
.P 
.br
http://atlc.sourceforge.net                - Home page 
.br
http://sourceforge.net/projects/atlc       - Download area
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-docs/index.html       - HTML docs
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/qex-december-1996/atlc.pdf - theory paper
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/examples                        - examples
.br
.br
.br
