.TH readbin 1 "atlc-4.4.2 28th Sept 2003" "Dr. David Kirkby"
.ds n 5
.SH NAME
\fBreadbin\fR - ATLC's binary file information provider
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBreadbin  filename.bin\fR
.br
.SH WARNING
This man page is not a complete set of documentation - the complexity of the atlc project makes man pages not an ideal way to document it, although out of completeness, man pages are produced. 
The best documentation that was current at the time this version was produced should be found on your
hard drive, usually at 
.br
/usr/local/share/atlc/docs/html\-docs/index.html 
.br
although it might be elsewhere if
your system administrator chose to install the package elsewhere. Sometimes, errors are corrected
in the documentation and placed at http://atlc.sourceforge.net/ before a new release of atlc is
released.  Please, if you notice a problem with the documentation - even spelling errors and typos,
please let me know. 

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBreadbin\fR  reports on the number and type of pixels created 
by the program atlc. 
.PP 
.SH OPTIONS
.br
There are no options for readbin
.SH EXAMPLE
% readbin coax2.V.bin
.br
file length=127008 bytes = 15876 pixels
.br
there are: 489 ones, 10852 zeros, 0 -ones, 4535 other values
.br
.SH FILES
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-docs/index.html
.br
the full documentation. 
bitmapfile.bmp
   Original bitmap file. Must be 24-bit colour uncompressed.
.br
.br 
bitmapfile.Ex.bin
.br 
   X-component of E-field as a binary.  
.br
bitmapfile.Ey.bin
.br
   y-component of E-field as a binary. .
.br 
bitmapfile.E.bin
.br 
   Sqrt(Ex^2+Ey^2), as a binary. 
bitmapfile.V.bin
.br 
bitmapfile.V.bin
.br 
   Voltage as a binary. 
.PP
All the saved binary files (.bin's) are saved as a double precision
number for each of the pixels. The first double is the top left, the
last the bottom right. 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO

atlc(1)
create_bmp_for_circ_in_circ(1)
create_bmp_for_circ_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_microstrip_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_cen_in_rect_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_in_circ(1)
create_bmp_for_rect_in_rect(1)
create_bmp_for_stripline_coupler(1)
create_bmp_for_symmetrical_stripline(1)
design_coupler(1)
find_optimal_dimensions_for_microstrip_coupler(1)
.P 
.br
http://atlc.sourceforge.net                - Home page 
.br
http://sourceforge.net/projects/atlc       - Download area
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/html-docs/index.html       - HTML docs
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/docs/qex-december-1996/atlc.pdf - theory paper
.br
atlc-X.Y.Z/examples                        - examples
.br
